we're here at kutex 2024 to look at what
might be one of the biggest Innovations
in water cooling in years and years this
right here is the cold plate of an aiio
but all of it has been metal 3D printed
onto here and it is so flipping cool now
how an AIO works is pretty simple you've
got your radiator right here that yeets
the heat out got a pump that pumps the
water around but the bit that we are
interested in is the cold plate right
here and that can have a huge impact on
your performance because how good this
is at getting the heat out of your CPU
can be completely transformative to how
good your AIO can perform and what we
have here is from fabric 8 Labs if you
look instead of your typical fins that
will just be like skyed on we have
complete freedom of what geometry we
want one of the most important things
for getting your CPU cool is having
loads of surface area of the copper
above it now in the past that was done
through skying basically you take a
really sharp blade and a whole bunch of
weight and you just push off a tiny
little sliver a whole bunch of times but
the problem is that with this process
you have no control over the geometry
besides just how thick the copper is and
how big the space is between each fin
now though we can do stuff like this or
like this or like this and we have
complete Freedom over over the flow path
completely and the most insane thing
they used AI in a way that's not just
completely stupid this is a cold plate
that's optimized for thread Ripper so
those are massive and also because
thread Ripper has multiple dieses you
can have some really hot spots on there
and it can be really difficult to get
that heat away evenly but what they have
done here is by having that heat map put
into an AI model they were able to
generate a whole bunch of different ways
to do the flow path and they eventually
came up with this right here as the
absolute best option and it is crazy
like if you look where the die is here
they have some little blockers so most
of the flow will be going over your
really hot bits and then you can have
way less flow on the outsides here it's
really freaking cool oh jeez we nearly
forgot to segue to our sponsor thanks to
private internet access for sponsoring
our 2024 computex coverage their VPN
network spans across six continents in
91 countries letting you access your
local catalog of content from all over
the globe plus with a single
subscription you get unlimited
connections making it easy to run Pia on
practically any device we previously
partnered with Pia for years and they
just concluded their second security
audit putting further emphasis on your
privacy and security so go check out Pia
using our Link in the description for a
special deal with a risk-free 30-day
money back guarantee what we've got here
is a really cool example
of how you can change the pitch of the
fins on your heat sink so that you can
optimize for the size of your pump so if
you look on this side they are really
really tight and that is going to mean
that you're going to have a whole lot of
pressure and super high velocity of your
fluid but if you do that across your
entire heat sink like you would if you
had a whole bunch of really tight Sky
fins you're going to need a massive pump
to push water through all of that so
instead here you can see that on the
right it's super dense but then it gets
progressively less dense as we go across
so that you can have a whole bunch of
high pressure high velocity fluid on the
right but then maybe over here if you
don't care as much about the thermal
performance it's a bit easier on your
pump system I've been following fabric 8
labs for a little bit and their 3D
printed water cooling stuff but what I
was not expecting was anytime in like
the next 10 years to see it as a
commercial product but that's what we
have right here they have teamed up with
acch to make a completely 3D printed
coal plate and they say that for every
100 Watts that your CPU outputs this
rate here can drop 2° C so say that you
have a 300 W CPU that means that you
have 6° more cooling with this guy that
is crazy I've been talking about 3D
printing but uh how the heck 3D printing
well it's a thing that's called
electrochemical additive manufacturing
or ecam for sure it's kind of like
putting together Electro plating and 3D
printing into one thing and also some
display technology it's sort of like
OLED I'll explain it the process is
similar to an SLA printer so we have our
build plate on the top and our print
head down on the bottom which is sort of
like an OLED panel but instead of pixels
that create photons to display an image
it has little electrodes that create a
current to deposit copper onto our build
plate these pixels have incredible
density 33 microns and you can have
about two of them to create a feature
for a feature size of just 60 microns or
70 maybe that's really freaking small
smaller than a human hair how you turn
that current into copper is by Just
Simply Having copper that is dissolved
into water and this is very cheap and
very available it is super common used
in electr plating so it's actually not a
very expensive process and if if you
know anything about displays they are
pretty much the only thing that has just
kept on getting cheaper and cheaper and
cheaper and being able to use that
technology for your 3D printer means
that we're not having to do any super
crazy uh laser burning copper or stuff
like that that's incredibly expensive
instead it's actually quite scalable
which is how we have a real product
that's going to exist sometime in the
near future now the process isn't
particularly fast they're getting about
1 mm per hour but you are able to have
four of these on a build Plate at a time
and the machines themselves are not
particularly expensive so even though
you need a lot of them it doesn't get
too out of hand too fast now acch won't
tell us exactly when they're expecting
for this to hit the market but they said
somewhere around Q3 Q4 this year and the
pricing again TBD but they said it'll be
a premium and given that the ryogen that
it's going into is already pretty
premium priced I don't think it'll be
cheap but that said the 3D printing
technology has lots more uses than coal
plates like this one really cool example
that they have here are some radar
sensors for cars so those are looking
out and seeing if there's you know a car
in front of you for your adaptive cruise
and stuff like that but the problem is
that a traditional antenna just kind of
yeets out electric waves that way this
right here instead by using that metal
3D printing is able to very precisely
control it so that you can have a really
wide beam this way but not a very wide
beam this way cuz you don't care about
what's happening on the ground or the
sky you just want to see the cyclist
that's right there somewhere here you
can see the inner geometry of how they
able to create that really cool beam
pattern and one of the best parts is
that the whole process is done at room
temperature so you don't have to be
doing any crazy stuff like heating up
your metal to super high temperatures
just like you don't have to heat up to
hit like And subscribe huge thanks for
watching hit like and subscribed and
just have a great old day we have a
bunch more computex videos coming to you
and I'll see you soon